LEAKER OF U.S. SURVEILLANCE
SECRETS, WAS GRANTED ASYLUM IN
RUSSIA TODAY.
HE WALKED OUT OF THE MOSCOW
AIRPORT WHERE HE HAD BEEN HOLED
UP FOR MORE THAN A MONTH.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT: WE
GET REACTION FROM WASHINGTON AND
MOSCOW AND TALK WITH FORMER
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
OFFICIALS ABOUT THE SCOPE OF
U.S. SPYING PROGRAMS.
>> THEY'RE STILL COLLECTING
EVERYTHING, CONTENT WORD FOR
WORD OF EVERY DOE MIDWEST
INCOMMUNICATION IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> THE IDEA THAT N.S.A. IS
KEEPING FILES ON AMERICANS AS A
GENERAL RULE JUST ISN'T TRUE.
>> Woodruff: THEN, REBELS FIRED
SCORES OF ROCKETS ON THE SYRIAN
CITY OF HOMS AS THE ASSAD REGIME
CELEBRATED ARMY DAY.
MARGARET WARNER GETS THE LATEST
ON THE BLOODY CIVIL WAR FROM
NPR'S DEBORAH AMOS.
>> Brown: LAW ENFORCEMENT BIDS
FAREWELL TO F.B.I. DIRECTOR
ROBERT MUELLER.
RAY SUAREZ EXPLORES THE
TRANSFORMATION OF THE BUREAU
AFTER THE 9-11 ATTACKS.
>> Woodruff: AND WE HEAR FROM
TWO U.S. SETORSNA LEADING THE
PUSH TO KEEP THE MILITARY'S
SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES IN THE
CHAIN OF COMMAND.
GWEN IFILL TALKS TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE REPUBLICAN KELLY
AYOTTE AND MISSOURI DEMOCRAT
CLAIRE McCASKILL.
>> THE OTHER SIDE HAS WANTED TO
MAKE THIS ARGUMENT ABOUT VICTIMS
VS. UNIFORMS.
THAT'S A FALSE PREMISE.
THIS ARGUMENT IS ABOUT HOW WE
CAN PROTECT VICTIMS THE BEST.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Brown: THE DRAMA OVER
DISCLOSURES OF U.S. SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS TOOK A MAJOR NEW TURN
TODAY, IN RUSSIA.
THE MAN AT THE CENTER OF THE
STORY WAS ALLOWED TO GO FREE FOR
THE FIRST TIME SINCE ARRIVING
THERE IN JUNE.
EDWARD SNOWDEN'S LAWYER
CONFIRMED THE NEWS TO REPORTERS
TODAY AT THE MOSCOW AIRPORT.
>> ( translated ): YES, I HAVE
ARRIVED IN THE AIRPORT SO THAT A
MEMBER OF THE IMMIGRATION
SERVICE COULD GIVE HIM A
DOCUMENT THAT GRANTS HIM
TEMPORARY ASYLUM IN THE
TERRITORY OF THE RUSSIAN
FEDERATION.
I HAVE JUST SEEN HIM OFF, AND HE
HAS LEFT THE AIRPORT TO GO TO A
SAFE LOCATION.
>> Brown: THE NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY LEAKER HAD BEEN IN LIMBO
IN THE AIRPORT'S TRANSIT ZONE
FOR MORE THAN A MONTH.
HE MANAGED TO FLEE IN A TAXI,
ELUDING THE MEDIA THRONG THAT
HAD CAMPED THERE FOR WEEKS.
SNOWDEN WILL NOW BE ABLE TO
TRAVEL FREELY THROUGHOUT RUSSIA,
BUT HIS LAWYER SAID HIS EXACT
WHEREABOUTS ARE BEING KEPT
SECRET FOR SECURITY REASONS.
>> ( translated ): HE WILL
CHOOSE HIS PLACE OF RESIDENCE
HIMSELF.
HE CAN LIVE IN A HOTEL, OR AN
APARTMENT.
AS HE IS ONE OF THE MOST WANTED
PEOPLE ON EARTH, HE WILL BE
MAKING SURE HIS PLACE OF
RESIDENCE IS ABSOLUTELY SAFE.
>> Brown: SNOWDEN RELEASED HIS
OWN STATEMENT THROUGH THE ANTI-
SECRECY GROUP WIKILEAKS, WHICH
HAS A LEGAL ADVISER TRAVELING
WITH HIM.
THE STATEMENT READ, IN PART:
U.S. OFFICIALS HAD DEMANDED
SNOWDEN BE RETURNED HOME TO FACE
ESPIONAGE CHARGES, FOR LEAKING
INFORMATION ABOUT THE N.S.A.'S
SECRET SURVEILLANCE OF PHONE AND
INTERNET COMMUNICATIONS.
BUT RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN REFUSED TO EXPEL HIM AND
ONE OF PUTIN'S AIDES DOWNPLAYED
TODAY'S DEVELOPMENT, INSISTING:
"THIS ISSUE ISN'T SIGNIFICANT
ENOUGH TO HAVE  IMPANACT ON
POLITICAL RELATIONS."
BUT IN WASHINGTON, WHITE HOUSE
SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY SAID
SNOWDEN'S RELEASE HAS U.S.
OFFICIALS WEIGHING WHETHER TO
CANCEL PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PLANNED
SUMMIT WITH PUTIN NEXT MONTH.
>> WE WILL OBVIOUSLY BE IN
CONTACT WITH RUSSIAN
AUTHORITIES, EXPRESSING OUR
EXTREME DISAPPOINTMENT IN THIS
DECISION AND MAKING THE CASE
CLEARLY THAT THERE IS ABSOLUTE
LEGAL JUSTIFICATION FOR MR.
SNOWDEN TO BE RETURNED TO THE
UNITED STATES WHERE HE IS UNDER
INDICTMENT ON THREE CHARGES
FELONY CHARGES.
>> Brown: MEANWHILE, THE
PRESIDENT MET PRIVATELY  WITH A
BIPARTISAN GROUP OF HOUSE AND
SENATE LAWMAKERS TO ADDRESS
CONCERNS ABOUT THE N.S.A.'S
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS.
BACK IN RUSSIA, SNOWDEN NOW HAS
A GRANT OF ASYLUM FOR AT LEAST A
YEAR.
THAT CAN BE EXTENDED
INDEFINITELY, AND HE EVEN HAS
THE RIGHT TO SEEK RUSSIAN
CITIZENSHIP.
A SHORT TIME AGO I SPOKE TO PAUL
SONNE OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" IN MOSCOW.
PAUL, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
HOW MUCH OF A SURPRISE WAS THIS
IN MOSCOW?
>> I WASN'T A PARTICULAR
SURPRISE.
THERE WAS A LOT OF WRITING ON
THE WALL HERE THAT THE KREMLIN
WAS GOING TO MAKE THIS DECISION
AND THE REAL QUESTION IS WHY WAS
THE KREMLIN PREDISPOSED TO
GRANTING EDWARD SNOWDEN ASYLUM?
THERE'S PROBABLY A NUMBER OF
FACTORS AT PLAY THERE.
ONE OF THOSE IS THAT RUSSIA IS
CONSCIOUS OF DOUBLE STANDARDS
HERE.
IT FEELS LIKE THE WEST AND THE
U.S. WOULDN'T NECESSARILY BE
PREDISPOSED TO EXPEL A RUSSIAN
ASYLUM SEEKER SO THEY SHOULDN'T
NECESSARILY EXPEL A U.S. ASYLUM
SEEKER.
I THINK THERE'S AN ELEMENT THAT
THIS WOULD PLAY WELL AMONG THE
MORE NATIONALIST ELEMENTS OF
GOVERNOR PUTIN'S CON STITCH
WHENSY AND THERE'S AN ELEMENT
HERE OF JUST WHO'S BOSS.
THIS IS AN ABILITY OF ONE OF
THOSE MOMENTS WHERE VLADIMIR
PUTIN CAN SHOW HE HAS THE UPPER
HAND AND THAT CAN PLAY WELL
AMONG HIS CONSTITUENCY.
>> Brown: AN AIDE TO PRESIDENT
PUTIN PLAYED DOWN THE POTENTIAL
FOR ANY IMPACT ON U.S./RUSSIA
RELATIONS.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THAT?
>> I THINK WHAT YOU SEE IS BOTH
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA TRYING TO DO
TWO THINGS AT ONCE
TO SAY, YOU KNOW, WE REALLY WANT
THIS GUY OR WE'RE NOT HANDING
THIS GUY OVER AND THEN THE THING
THAT'S UNDERLINING THAT IS
COMMENTS COMING FROM BOTH SIDES
SAYING WE DON'T WANT THIS TO
AFFECT OUR RELATIONS.
SO WHAT RUSSIA IS SAYING IS WE
CAN'T GIVE HIM BACK TO YOU,
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP HIM HERE AND
THE WHITE HOUSE IS SAYING YOU
HAVE TO HAND HIM OVER.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND WE WANT TO
DEAL WITH THINGS LIKE SYRIA AND
DISARMAMENT AND OVER -- NORTH
KOREA, IRAN.
WE DON'T WANT THAT TO UPSET THE
DIPLOMACY WE'VE BEEN WORKING ON
IN THE LAST COUPLE MONTHS.
>> Brown: ON THE AMERICAN SIDE,
HOW MUCH ANGER ARE YOU PICKING
UP IN WASHINGTON AND IN MOSCOW
FROM THE EMBASSY OR OTHER
AMERICANS?
>> SO I THINK WHAT'S INTERESTING
IS THAT JAY CARNEY TODAY, THE
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN, DIDN'T
SAY ANYTHING THAT MUCH STRONGER
THAN HE'D BEEN SAYING THROUGHOUT
THE ENTIRE SNOWDEN AFFAIR SINCE
SNOWDEN ARRIVED HERE IN LATE
JUNE.
HE SAID THE WHITE HOUSE IS
EXTREMELY DISAPPOINTED BUT THEY
DON'T WANT TO CUT OFF RELATIONS
WITH RUSSIA.
HE DID SAY THIS MAY CALL INTO
QUESTION THE SUMMIT THAT HAS
BEEN PLANNED IN MOSCOW IN EARLY
SEPTEMBER BETWEEN VLADIMIR PUTIN
AND BARACK OBAMA.
BUT IN TERMS OF ANY OTHER
RETRIBUTION OR RESPONSE, YOU
KNOW, WE AREN'T SEEING AN
ESCALATED LEVEL OF RHETORIC FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE, THOUGH WE HAVE
SEEN SOME OF THAT FROM CONGRESS,
ESPECIALLY FROM REPUBLICAN
SENATORS.
>> Brown: YOUR DIFFERENCE
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS IS THAT
THEY'RE NOT PARTICULARLY WORRIED
ABOUT THE SUMMIT OR G-20 MEETING
BEING IMPACTD?
>> I THINK THERE IS A REAL
POSSIBILITY THAT BARACK OBAMA IS
NOT GOING TO COME TO THE SUMMIT
IN EARLY SEPTEMBER, THAT HE WAS
PLANNING ON ATTENDING WITH
VLADIMIR PUTIN WHICH IS THE HEAD
OF 2 T G-20 SUMMIT IN ST.
PETERSBURG.
AND I THINK YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT
TWO REASONS FOR THAT: ONE IS IF
HE COMES HERE AND HE APPEARS TO
BE SHAKING HANDS WITH PRESIDENT
PUTIN AND EDWARD SNOWDEN IS
NEARBY SOMEWHERE ELSE THAT
DOESN'T MAKE HIM LOOK GOOD TO
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
BUT THE OTHER THING THAT I THINK
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE MISSING HERE
IS THAT IT'S POSSIBLE THERE ARE
NOT GOING TO BE RESULTED FROM
THAT SUMMIT AND IT DOESN'T
BEHOOVE PRESIDENT OBAMA FROM
COMING HERE AND HAVE YET ANOTHER
AWKWARD MEETING OR PRESS
C IN NORTHERN IRELAND
A MONTH AGO WHERE HE DOESN'T
HAVE ANY RESULTS TO SHOW.
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THE U.S.
AND RUSSIA ARE MAKING ANY
PROGRESS IN SYRIA.
IT DOESN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO SHOW
FOR DISARMAMENT, THE SPEECH THAT
BARACK OBAMA MADE IN BERLIN A
COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO WAS MET WITH
A TEPID RESPONSE HERE IN MOSCOW
SO PART OF THIS IS A CALCULATION
ON THE WHITE HOUSE'S PART THAT
NOT ONLY WILL THIS LOOK BAD IF
EDWARD SNOWDEN IS IN BARACK
OBAMA'S AIRSPACE WHILE HE'S HERE
IT'S ALSO THAT THEY JUST MIGHT
NOT HAVE ANYTHING TO SHOW FOR
THAT SUMMIT.
>> Brown: WHAT HAPPENS NEXT FOR
SNOWDEN?
IS THERE AN EXPECTATION THERE
THAT THIS ONE-YEAR GRANT OF
ASYLUM MEANS SOMETHING THAT
COULD STRETCH ON WITHOUT LIMIT?
>> I WOULD NOT NECESSARILY TAKE
THE ONE-YEAR LIMIT OF THIS
TEMPORARY ASYLUM TO BE THE
AMOUNT OF TIME THAT SNOWDEN IS
GOING TO SPEND IN RUSSIA.
THAT IS A RENEWABLE PERIOD.
HE COULD BE HERE INDEFINITELY
AND FROM WHAT WHAT HIS LAWYER IS
SAYING IT'S LOOKING LIKE HE'LL
BE SEEING HERE FOR THE
FORESEEABLE FUTURE.
IN TERMS OF WHAT HE'S DOING,
WHERE HE IS, THOSE QUESTIONS
REMAIN UNANSWERED.
HIS LAWYER HAS BEEN COY ABOUT
WHERE HE'S PLANNING TO LIVE,
WHERE HE WENT TODAY AFTER HE GOT
IN THE TAXI OUTSIDE OF THE
AIRPORT AND, YOU KNOW, HE'S
SAYING THAT WE DON'T WANT TO
GIVE OUT THAT INFORMATION
BECAUSE THIS IS OBVIOUSLY A
WANTED ALLEGED U.S. CRIMINAL AND
HE HAS SERIOUS SAFETY CONCERNS
SO WE'RE GOING TO NOT DISCLOSE
WHERE HE'LL BE STAYING IN
MOSCOW.
SO IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN WHAT
HE'S GOING TO BE DOING HERE.
THE HEAD OF ONE OF RUSSIA'S
BIGGEST SOCIAL NETWORKS CAME OUT
TODAY AND OFFERED HIM A JOB AS A
PROGRAMMER BUT ONE OF THE MAIN
THINGS WE KNOW IS THAT THE
REQUIREMENT FOR GIVING HIM
ASYLUM, PRESIDENT PUTIN SAID HE
NEEDED TO STOP HIS POLITICAL
ACTIVITIES.
HE COULDN'T CONTINUE TO BE A
THORN IN THE SIDE OF THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT WHILE IN RUSSIA.
SO WHATEVER HE DOES IT'S
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO BE A
PUBLIC ROLE.
>> Brown: PAUL SONNE OF THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" IN MOSCOW,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: WE CONTINUE OUR
LOOK AT GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE
WITH A DEBATE AMONG FORMER
OFFICIALS FROM THE N.S.A., IN
JUST A MOMENT.
ALSO AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
THE BLOODSHED CONTINUES IN THE
SYRIAN CIVIL WAR; ROBERT
MUELLER'S MARK ON THE F.B.I. AND
SENATORS McCASKILL AND AYOTTE ON
CURBING MILITARY SEXUAL
ASSAULTS.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holma ARIn:EL CASTRO WHO HELD
THREE WOMEN CAPTIVE AND RAPED
THEM REPEATEDLY, OVER A DECADE,
WAS SENTENCED TO LIFE WITHOUT
PAROLE TODAY, PLUS 1,000 YEARS.
ONE OF HIS VICTIMS, MICHELLE
KNIGHT, ADDRESSED THE HEARING.
SHE TOLD CASTRO SHE SPENT ELEVEN
YEARS IN HELL, BUT NOW, HAS HER
LIFE BACK.
>> FROM THIS MOMENT ON I WILL
NOT LET YOU DEFINE ME OR AFFECT
WHO I AM, YOU WILL.
I WILL LIVE ON.
YOU WILL DIE A LITTLE EVERYDAY
AS YOU THINK OF THE 11 YEARS OF
ATROCITIES YOU INFLICTED ON US.
>> Holman: CASTRO THEN DELIVERED
A RAMBLING STATEMENT.
HE ACKNOWLEDGED WHAT HE DID WAS
WRONG BUT INSISTED MOST OF THE
SEX HE HAD WITH TCONSENSUAL.
>> I JUST WANTED TO CLEAR THE
RECORD THAT I AM NOT A MONSTER.
I DIDN'T PREY ON THESE WOMEN, I
JUST ACTED ON SEXUAL INSTINCTS
BECAUSE OF MY SEXUAL ADDICTION.
AS GOD IS MY WITNESS, I NEVER
BEAT THESE WOMEN, LIKE THEY ARE
TRYING TO SAY THAT I DID.
I NEVER TORTURED THEM
>> Holman: LAST WEEK, CASTRO
PLEADED GUILTY TO MORE THAN 900
COUNTS, INCLUDING KIDNAPPING,
RAPE AND MURDER, FOR BEATING AND
STARVING ONE OF HIS CAPTIVES
UNTIL SHE MISCARRIED.
IN AFGHANISTAN, NATO OPENED AN
INVESTIGATION AFTER WEAPONS FIRE
FROM U.S. HELICOPTER MISTAKENLY
KILLED FIVE AFGHAN POLICE
OFFICERS OVERNIGHT.
TWO OTHERS WERE WOUNDED DURING
THE OPERATION IN NANGARHAR
PROVINCE, IN THE EASTERN PART OF
THE COUNTRY.
AFGHAN SPECIAL FORCES CALLED FOR
AIR SUPPORT DURING A CLASH WITH
TALIBAN FIGHTERS AT A POLICE
CHECKPOINT.
THE U.S. HELICOPTER ENGAGED AND
APPARENTLY FIRED ON THE WRONG
TARGET.
THE U.S. MAY END THE USE OF
DRONE ATTACKS IN PAKISTAN IN THE
NEAR FUTURE.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
TOLD PAKISTANI T.V. TODAY THAT
HE HOPES IT'S GOING TO BE VERY,
VERY SOON.
HE MET WITH NEW PRIME MINISTER
NAWAR SHARIF AND ANNOUNCED THE
U.S. AND PAKISTAN  WILL RESUME A
FULL PARTNERSHIP, INCLUDING
HIGH-LEVEL TALKS ON SECURITY.
KERRY ACKNOWLEDGED U.S. DRONE
ATTACKS AND OTHER ISSUES HAVE
ROILED RELATIONS WITH PAKISTAN
SINCE 2011.
>> I THINK WE CAME HERE TODAY,
BOTH THE PRIME MINISTER AND
MYSELF, WITH A COMMITMENT THAT
WE CANNOT ALLOW EVENTS THAT
MIGHT DIVIDE US IN A SMALL WAY
TO DISTRACT FROM THE COMMON
VALUES AND THE COMMON INTERESTS
THAT UNITE US IN BIG WAYS.
KERRY ALSO ADDRESSED THE
POTICALIL CRISIS IN EGYPT.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
DECLINED TO SAY THE MILITARY
OUSTER OF PRESINT MDEOHAMMED
MORSI WAS A COUP.
KERRY SAID THE MILITARY DID NOT
TAKE OVER, BUT IN HIS WORDS IS
RESTORING DEMOCRACY.
HE SAID MILLIONS OF EGYPTIANS
ASKED THE ARMED FORCES TO
INTERVENE.
EGYPT'S INTERIOR MINISTRY
OFFERED SAFE PASSAGE TODAY TO
THOUSANDS OF MORSI SUPPORTERS,
IF THEY END TWO LARGE SIT-INS IN
CAIRO.
THE OFFER CAME A DAY AFTER THE
INTERIM CABINET ORDERED POLICE
O BRTEAK-UP THE DEMONSTRATIONS,
BUT GAVE NO TIMETABLE.
EN EVSO, THERE WAS NO SIGN TODAY
THE PROTESTERS PLAN TO MOVE ON,
DESPITE THE RISK OF NEW
BLOODSHED.
INSTEAD, THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
CALLED FOR A MASS MARCH
TOMORROW.
CHARGES OF ELECTION FRAUD ECHOED
ACROSS ZIMBABWE TODAY, AS VOTES
WERE COUNTED IN YESTERDAY'S
PRESIDENTIAL CONTEST.
THE OPPOSITION CHARGED THE
OUTCOME HAS BEEN FIXED BY ROBERT
MUGABE, THE 89-YEAR-OLD
PRESIDENT WHO'S LED THE COUNTRY
FOR 33 YEARS.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM NEIL
CONNERY OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: AS THE RESULTS FROM
ZIMBABWE'S ELECTIONS SLOWLY
EMERGED, THE ANGER OF WHAT'S
BEEN CONDEMNED AS A MONUMENTAL
FRAUD SOON BECAME CLEAR.
THE OPPOSITION LEADER ATTACKING
WHAT HE SAID WAS A RIGGED
BALLOT.
>> THIS HAS BEEN A HUGE FUSS.
THIS ELECTION HAS BEEN MARRED BY
ILLEGAL VIOLATIONS WHICH TASK
LEGITIMACY.
IT IS OUR VIEW THAT THIS
ELECTION IS NULL AND VOID.
>> Reporter: THE SUSPECTED
MUGABE SUPPORTERS WERE BUSSED IN
TO VOTE ON ELECTION DAY TO A
CONSTITUENCY WHERE THEY DON'T
LIVE.
THEY WERE CHALLENGED BY AN
OPPOSITION M.P. WHO HAS NOW LOST
HIS SEAT.
ROBERT MUGABE'S PARTY SAYS IT'S
BURR TREAT OPPOSITION BUT
OBSERVERS ESTIMATE AS MANY AS
ONE MILLION VOTERS WERE DENIED
THEIR DEMOCRATIC RIGHT.
>> THE ELECTIONS WERE SERIOUSLY
COMPROMISED BY A SYSTEMATIC
EFFORT TO DISENFRANCHISE URBAN
VOTERS, UP TO A MILLION PERSONS.
>> Reporter: WITH THE COUNTNGI
HERE NEARLY COMPLETE, THERE'S A
GROWING AIR OF RESIGNATION THAT
THESE OFFICIAL RESULTS WILL BE
ANYTHING BUT A TRUE REFLECTION
OF THE VOTERS' WISHES.
THE OPPOSITION SAY THEY'RE
INCENSED BY THE VOTE-RIGGING
THEY CLAIM HAS TAKEN PLACE.
OUTSIDE THE OPPOSITION'S
HEADQUARTERS WE SAW A POLICE
PRESENCE FOR MUCH OF THE DAY.
AFTER 33 YEARS IN POWER, ROBERT
MUGABE'S RULE GOES ON AND THE
HOPES OF THOSE WHO DARE TO DREAM
CHANGE WAS COMING TO ZIMBABWE
HAVE BEEN DEFLATED.
>> Holman: A NUMBER OF U.S.
EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES
WORLDWIDE WILL BE CLOSED SUNDAY
IN THE FACE OF A POSSIBLE TERROR
THREAT.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT SAID TODAY
IT'S BEING DONE OUT OF AN
ABUNDANCE OF CAUTION, AND IS
BASED ON UNSPECIFIED
INFORMATION.
THE EMBASSIES MAY BE CLOSED FOR
MORE THAN ONE DAY, DEPENDING ON
HOW SERIOUS THE THREAT IS JUDGED
TO BE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS CHOSEN A NEW
LEADER FOR THE INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE.
THE NOMINEE-- ANNOUNCED TODAY--
IS JOHN KOSKINEN, A RETIRED
CORPORATE AND GOVERNMENT
OFFICIAL WHO'S MANAGED A NUMBER
OF ORGANIZATIONS IN CRISIS.
THE I.R.S. HAS BEEN UNDER FIRE
FOR SINGLING OUT TEA PARTY
GROUPS AND OTHERS FOR EXTRA
SCRUTINY WHEN THEY SEEK TAX-
EXEMPT STATUS.
ON WALL STREET, UPBEAT REPORTS
ON MANUFACTURING IN CHINA AND
THE U.S. DROVE STOCKS TO NEW
HIGHS.
THE S&P 500 CLOSED ABOVE 1700
FOR THE FIRST TIME.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 128 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,628.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 49 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,675.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE PICK UP ON
THE CONTINUING FALLOUT FROM THE
REVELATIONS OF FORMER
N.S.A. CONTRACTOR EDWARD
SNOWDEN.
LAST NIGHT WE DEBATED THE ROLE
OF THE FOREIGN SURVEILLANCE
INTELLIGENCE COURT WHICH
APPROVES THE GOVERNMENT'S
REQUESTS TO GATHER INTELLIGENCE
INFORMATION ON AMERICANS.
TONIGHT, WE HAVE A CONVERSATION
WITH THREE FORMER N.S.A.
OFFICIALS: A FORMER INSPECTOR
GENERAL AND TWO N.S.A. VETERANS
WHO BLEW THE WHISTLE ON WHAT
THEY SAY WERE ABUSES AND
MIS-MANAGEMENT AT THE SECRET
GOVERNMENT INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
WILLIAM BINNEY WORKED AT THE
N.S.A. FOR OVER THREE DECADES AS
A MATHEMATICIAN, WHERE HE
DESIGNED SYSTEMS FOR COLLECTING
AND ANALYZING LARGE AMOUNTS OF
DATA.
HE RETIRED IN 2001.
AND RUSSELL TICE HAD A TWO
DECADE CAREER WITH THE N.S.A.
WHERE HE FOCUSED ON COLLECTION
AND ANALYSIS.
HE SAYS HE WAS FIRED IN 2005
AFTER CALLING ON CONGRESS TO
PROVIDE GREATER PROTECTION TO
WHISTLEBLOWERS.
HE CLAIMS THE N.S.A. TAPPED THE
PHONE OF HIGH LEVEL GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS AND THE NEWS MEDIA TEN
YEARS AGO.
>> THE UNITED STATES, AT THAT
TIME, WAS USING SATELLITES TO
SPY ON AMERICAN CITIZENS.
AT THAT TIME, IT WAS NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT INCLUDING COLIN
POWELL, AND AN AWFUL LOT OF
SENIOR MILITARY PEOPLE AND
INDUSTRIAL TYPES.
THIS WAS IN 2002, 2003 TIME
FRAME.
THE N.S.A. WERE TARGETING
INDIVIDUALS, JUDGES IN THE
SUPREME COURT.
I HELD IN MY HAND JUDGE ALITO'S
TARGETING INFORMATION FOR HIS
PHONE AND HIS STAFF AND HIS
FAMILY.
>> Woodruff: SO BINNEY WHAT WAS
YOUR SENSE OF WHO WAS BEING
TARGETED AND WHY THEY WERE BEING
TARGETED?
WHAT WAS BEING COLLECTED IN
OTHER WORDS?
>> WELL I WASN'T AWARE OF
SPECIFIC TARGETING LIKE RUSS
WAS.
I JUST SAW THE INPUTS WERE
INCLUDING HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF PHONE CALLS OF US CITIZENS
EVERY DAY.
SO VIRTUALLY THERE WASN'T
ANYBODY WHO WASN'T A PART OF
THIS COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.
SO VIRTUALLY YOU CAN TARGET
ANYONE IN THIS COUNTRY THAT YOU
WANTED.
>> Woodruff: BOTH BINNEY AND
TICE SUSPECT THAT TODAY, THE
N.S.A. IS DOING MORE THAN JUST
COLLECTING METADATA ON CALLS
MADE IN THE U.S.
THEY BOTH POINT TO THIS CNN
INTERVIEW BY FORMER F.B.I.
COUNTER-TERRORISM AGENT TIM
CLEMENTE, DAYS AFTER THE BOSTON
MARATHON BOMBING.
CLEMENTE WAS ASKED IF THE
GOVERNMENT HAD A WAY TO GET THE
RECORDINGS OF THE CALLS BETWEEN
TAMERLAN TSARNAEV AND HIS WIFE.
>> WE CERTAINLY HAVE WAYS IN
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY SOMETHING
THAT THE F.B.I. IS GOING TO WANT
>> Woodruff: TICE SAYS AFTER HE
SAW THIS INTERVIEW ON TELEVISION
HE CALLED SOME FORMER WORKMATES
AT THE N.S.A.
>> WELL TWO MONTHS AGO I
CONTACTED SOME COLLEAGUES IN
N.S.A., AND WE HAD A LITTLE
MEETING, AND THE QUESTION CAME
UP IS THE N.S.A. COLLECTING
EVERYTHING RIGHT NOW BECAUSE WE
FIGURED THAT WAS THE GOAL.
AND, YES, THEY ARE COLLECTING
EVERYTHING RIGHT NOW, CONTENT
WORD FOR WORD, EVERY DOMESTIC
COMMUNICATION IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: BOTH OF YOU KNOW
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT SAYS: THAT
WE'RE COLLECTING A NUMBER OF
PHONE CALLS THAT ARE MADE, AND
THE EMAILS, BUT NOT WERE NOT
LISTENING TO THEM.
>> WELL I DON'T BELIEVE THAT FOR
A MINUTE.
I MEAN THAT'S WHY THEY HAD TO BE
BLUFFDALE THAT FACILITY IN UTAH
WITH THAT MASSIVE AMOUNT OF
STORAGE THAT COULD STORE ALL
THESE RECORDINGS AND ALL THE
DATA BEING PASSED ON THE FIBER
OPTIC NETWORK OF THE WORLD.
I MEAN YOU CAN STORE 100 YEARS
OF THE WORLD'S INFORMATION HERE.
THAT'S FOR CONTENT STORAGE.
THAT'S NOT FOR METADATA.
METADATA IF YOU WERE PUTTING IT
INTO THE SYSTEM THAT WE BUILT,
YOU COULD DO IT IN A 12 BY 20
FOOT ROOM FOR THE WORLD, THAT'S
ALL THE SPACE YOU NEED.
YOU DON'T NEED 100,000 SQUARE
FEET OF SPACE, LIKE THEY HAVE AT
BLUFFDALE, TO DO THAT.
YOU NEED THAT KIND OF STORAGE
FOR CONTENT.
>> Woodruff: SO TELL US, HOW
EXTENSIVE IS THE N.S.A.S
>> THIS, THE PROGRAM ONLY
INVOLVES TELEPHONY METADATA, NOT
EMAILS, NOT GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION.
HAVING A PHYSICAL ANALYST LOOK
OR LISTEN, WHICH WOULD BE
DISINGENUOUS.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE GOVERNMENT
VEHEMENTLY DENIES IT IS
RECORDING ALL TELEPHONE CALLS.
ROBERT LITT IS THE GENERAL
COUNCIL IN THE OFFICE OF THE
DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE.
HE RECENTLY SPOKE AT THE
BROOKINGS INSTITUTION.
>> WE DO NOT INDISCRIMINATELY
SWEEP UP AND STORE THE CONTENTS
OF THE COMMUNICATIONS OF
AMERICANS, OR OF THE CITIZENRY
OF ANY COUNTRY.
WE DO NOT USE OUR INTELLIGENCE
WE COLLECT METADATA--
INFORMATION ABOUT
COMMUNICATIONS-- MORE BROADLY
THAN WE COLLECT THE ACTUAL
CONTENT OF COMMUNICATIONS,
BECAUSE IT IS LESS INTRUSIVE
THAN COLLECTING CONTENT AND IN
FACT CAN PROVIDE US INFORMATION
THAT HELPS US MORE NARROWLY
FOCUS OUR COLLECTION OF CONTENT
ON APPROPRIATE TARGETS.
BUT IT SIMPLY IS NOT TRUE THAT
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT IS
LISTENING TO EVERYTHING SAID BY
EVERY CITIZEN OF ANY COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: JOEL BRENNER, WHO
WAS THE N.S.A.'S INSPECTOR
GENERAL AND THEN SENIOR LEGAL
COUNSEL, SAYS THE INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY OBEYS THE LAW AND
DIRECTIONS OF THE FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE COURT.
>> IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND THAT THE N.S.A.
HASN'T DONE ANYTHING, AS I
UNDERSTAND IT AND FROM ALL I
KNOW, THAT GOES ONE INCH BEYOND
WHAT ITS BEEN AUTHORIZED TO DO
BY A COURT.
>> Woodruff: SO TELL US, HOW
EXTENSIVE IS THE N.S.A.S
COLLECTION OF DATA ON AMERICANS,
ON THEIR PHONE CALLS, ON THEIR
EMAILS, ON THEIR USE OF THE
INTERNET.
>> THIS-- THE PROGRAM ONLY
INVOLVES TELEPHONY METADATA, NOT
EMAILS, NOT GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION.
THE IDEA THAT N.S.A. IS KEEPING
FILES ON AMERICANS AS A GENERAL
RULE, JUST ISN'T TRUE.
THERE'S NO BASIS FOR BELIEVING
THAT.
BUT THE IDEA THAT N.S.A. IS
COMPILING DOSSIERS ON PEOPLE THE
WAY J. EDGAR HOOVER DID, OR THE
WAY THE EAST GERMAN POLICE DID,
AS SOME PEOPLE SUGGEST, THAT'S
JUST NOT TRUE.
>> Woodruff: WELL WE'VE BEEN
TALKING TO A COUPLE OF FORMER
N.S.A. EMPLOYEES AND ONE OF THE
ALLEGATIONS THEY MAKE IS THAT
ITS NOT JUST COLLECTING THIS
METADATA ON TELEPHONE
CONVERSATIONS, ITS RECORDING
THOSE CONVERSATIONS AND ITS
STORING THEM AND KEEPING THEM
FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE USE.
>> I THINK YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
MR. TICE AND MR. BINNEY, MR.
BINNEY HASN'T BEEN AT THE AGENCY
SINCE 2001, MR. TICE HASN'T BEEN
AT THE AGENCY SINCE 2005, THEY
DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON
INSIDE THE AGENCY.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER ALLEGATION
THAT WE HEARD FROM THEM, FROM
MR. TICE, IS THAT BACK BEFORE HE
LEFT THE N.S.A. IN THE EARLY
2000s, THAT THERE WAS SPYING
GOING ON NEWS ORGANIZATIONS, ON
SUPREME COURT JUSTICES, ON
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES, ON
SENATOR BARACK OBAMA, AND ON
MILITARY LEADERS, THE TOP
GENERALS IN THE ARMY.
>> MR. TICE WAS TERMINATED FROM
INDICATED, HAVING TO DO WITH THE
PERIOD BEFORE 2005, EIGHT YEARS
AGO.
THEY'RE JUST COMING OUT NOW.
I WONDER WHY.
THE FARTHER HE GETS FROM THE
PERIOD WHEN HE COULD HAVE KNOWN
WHAT HE WAS TALKING ABOUT, THE
MORE FANCIFUL THE OBLIGATIONS
HAVE BECOME.
>> Woodruff: BRENNER CLAIMS THAT
OVERSIGHT Of INFORMATION
GATHERING HAS ACTUALLY IMPROVED.
>> WE HAVE TURNED INTELLIGENCE
INTO A REGULATED INDUSTRY IN A
WAY THAT NONE OF OUR ALLIES,
EVEN IN EUROPE, HAVE DONE.
WE HAVE ALL THREE BRANCHES OF
GOVERNMENT NOW INVOLVED IN
OVERSEEING THE ACTIVITIES OF THE
N.S.A., THE C.I.A., THE D.I.A.,
AND OUR OTHER INTELLIGENCE
APPARATUS.
THIS IS AN ENORMOUS ACHIEVEMENT.
>> Woodruff: LAST WEEK, ONE
OVERSIGHT PROPOSAL IN CONGRESS
AIMED AT PREVENTING THE N.S.A.
FROM COLLECTING DATE ON PHONE
CALLS WAS NARROWLY DEFEATED, BUT
SOME MEMBERS ARE VOWING TO PRESS
FOR ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON
THE INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY.
>> Brown: NOW BACK TO SYRIA,
WHERE THERE WAS ANOTHER BLOODY
DAY AND THE COUNTRY'S PRESIDENT
BASHA AL ASSAD CALLED HIS
COUNTRY'S CIVIL WAR THE FIERCEST
BARBARIC WAR IN MODERN HISTORY.
MARGARET W WARNER REPORTS.
( EXPLOSION )
>> ALLAHU AKBAR.
>> Brown: THAT WAS A WEAPONS
DEPOT, VAPORIZED IN A MASSIVE
EXPLOSION TODAY, AS REBELS
ROCKETED AN ARMY-CONTROLLED
DISTRICT IN THE KEY CROSSROADS
CITY OF HOMS.
OPPOSITION ACTIVISTS AND LOCAL
RESIDENTS SAID AT LEAST 40
PEOPLE WERE KILLED, AND THREE
TIMES THAT MANY INJURED.
THE ATTACK SHOWED THE REBELS
STILL GOING ON OFFENSE  IN THE
FACE OF RECENT GAINS BY
GOVERNMENT FORCES.
BUT THOSE REGIME GAINS GAVE
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD THE
CONFIDENCE TO ISSUE A STATEMENT
TODAY, PREDICTING HIS FORCES
WILL WIN THE CIVIL WAR AND TO
TAKE HIS FIRST PUBLIC TRIP
OUTSIDE DAMASCUS IN MORE THAN A
YEAR.
HE ADDRESSED TROOPS IN DARAYA, A
SUBURB, IN OBSERVANCE OF ARMY
DAY.
>> ( translated ): THE POWER OF
THE ARMY COMES FROM ITS PEOPLE.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME IT COMES
FROM THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE
FOR YOU, AND THE SYRIAN NATION
STRONGLY STANDS WITH YOU.
FROM WHEN THIS CONFLICT FIRST
STARTED I'VE SAID WE WILL BE
VICTORIOUS.
MARTYRDOM IS A FATE.
BUT OUR GOAL IS ONE OF VICTORY,
AND ALL THE NATION IS AWAITING
THE VICTORY OF THE SYRIAN ARMY.
>> Warner: PHOTOS OF DESTRUCTION
IN HOMS SHOW THOSE VICTORIES
HAVE COME AT AN ASTONISHING
COST.
WHAT'S LEFT OF THE CITY'S
KHALDIYEH DISTRICT IS NOW BACK
UNDER SYRIAN ARMY CONTROL.
HOMS-- 100 MILES NORTH OF
DAMASCUS-- IS THE GATEWAY TO
ASSAD'S ALAWITE-SECT POWERBASE
ON THE COAST, AND THUS A CRUCIAL
BATTLEGROUND.
FARTHER NORTH, PARTS OF IDLIB,
ALEPPO AND RAQQA PROVINCES ARE
HELD BY VARIOUS REBEL GROUPS,
BUT THE CITY OF IDLIB IS UNDER
REGIME CONTROL AND BRUTAL
FIGHTING RAGES IN THE COMMERCIAL
HUB OF ALEPPO.
MEANWHILE, THERE ARE STILL
QUESTIONS ABOUT CHEMICAL WEAPONS
USE IN THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR.
THE UNITED NATIONS SAYS IT WILL
SOON DEPLOY INVESTIGATORS TO
THREE SITES.
THE U.N., U.S. AND OTHER
COUNTRIES HAVE CONCLUDED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS HAVE BEEN USED,
BUT WITH MIXED JUDGMENTS AS TO
WHO'S RESPONSIBLE.
MEANWHILE, AS THE FIGHTING
GRINDS ON, PRESIDENT OBAMA
APPROVED ARMS SHIPMENTS TO SOME
REBELS, BUT MANY OF THEM SAY IT
MAY BE TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE.
FOR MORE ON THE SITUATION IN
SYRIA, WE ARE JOINED BY NATIONAL
PUBLIC RADIO'S DEBORAH AMOS WHO
HAS BEEN COVERING THE COUNTRY'S
CIVIL WAR SINCE IT BEGAN.
SHE'S BACK IN THE UNITED STATES
FOR A BRIEF VISIT.
DEB AMOS, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US DURING ONE OF THESE BRIEF
VISITS OF YOURS.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE, THANKS.
>> Warner: WHAT IS YOUR SENSE OF
THE STRATEGIC SITUATION ON THE
GROUND IN SYRIA?
>> I THINK OVER THE PAST COUPLE
OF DAYS WE'VE SEEN THIS
CONTINUING MOMENTUM FOR THE
REGIME.
ESPECIALLY IN THE CITY OF HOMS.
THEY HAVE BEEN ABLE TO TAKE A
PARTICULAR NEIGHBORHOOD,
KHALDIYEH.
THE REBELS HAVE HAD THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD FOR MORE THAN A
YEAR AND THIS CONTINUES ON FROM
TAKING THE TOWN OF QUSAIR ON THE
LEBANESE BORDER.
SO WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS THAT THE
REGIME IS ABLE TO USE A
NOT-SO-SECRET WEAPON: FOREIGN
FIGHTERS.
HEZBOLLAH FROM LEBANON, THE
MILITANT SHIITE MILITIA HAS COME
IN TO BACK UP THE ARMY AND
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO SCORE TWO
SIGNIFICANT VICTORIES AGAINST
THE REBELS IN THE CENTER OF THE
COUNTRY.
THE REBELS REMAIN STRONG IN THE
NORTH AND IN THE SOUTH.
>> Warner: SO WHAT'S THE STATE
OF THE REBEL FORCES AND THEIR
STATE OF MIND?
YOU TALKED TO PEOPLE INVOLVED IN
THAT CAMP.
ARE THEY DEMORALIZED?
>> I THINK QUSAIR WAS
DEMORALIZING WITH THE REBELS AND
KHALDIYEH IS AS WELL.
THESE ARE BOTH SYMBOLIC,
ESPECIALLY IN THE CITY OF HOMS
WHICH WAS THE HEART OF THE
REVOLUTION AND THE REGIME HAS
COME DOWN VERY HARD.
IN FACT, HAS DESTROYED KHALDIYEH
TO SAVE IT.
WE SAW PICTURES TODAY, DRAMATIC
PICTURES YESTERDAY AND TODAY, OF
UNBELIEVABLE DESTRUCTION IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE REGIME SHOWED A LOT OF
PICTURES IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD TO
PROVE THAT A HISTORIC MOSQUE WAS
STILL STANDING BUT WHAT YOU SAW
INSTEAD AND WHAT SO MANY PEOPLE
FOCUSED ON WAS THIS
ONCE-THRIVING NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
BEEN COMPLETELY DESTROYED WE
ALSO SAW THAT IN QUSAIR ON THE
LEBANESE BORDER AS THE REGIME
ROUTED THE REBELS THEY DESTROYED
THE CITY.
>> NOW HAD THE WEAPONS -- THE
ADMINISTRATION PROMISED AND THEY
HAD TO GET IT THROUGH CONGRESS,
BUT HAVE ANY ARRIVED?
ARE THEY MAKING ANY DIFFERENCE?S
AGO IN JORDAN TALKING TO REBELS
THERE AND NOTHING HAD ARRIVED
AND THEY WERE COMPLAINING ABOUT
IT.
THERE ARE WEAPONS COMING
THROUGH.
THEY ARE FROM SAUDI ARABIA THE
AMERICANS NOW ARE HELPING WITH
VETTING THE REBELS.
THE AMERICANS, THE FRESH, THE
TURKS AND THE SAUDIS HAVE AN
OPERATION ROOM IN AMMAN.
THEY ARE IN CONSTANT TOUCH WITH
THE REBEL THERE IS.
AS THE SITUATION STANDS NOW, THE
U.S. IS STILL GIVING NON-LETHAL
AID.
WHAT THAT MEANS IS NIGHT VISION
GOGGLES, KEVLAR VEST, M.R.E.s.
THE UNITED STATES SO FAR HAS NOT
STARTED PUTTING WEAPONS INTO THE
HANDS OF REBEL BUS THEY ARE
TAKING A BIG ROLE IN VETING WHO
DOES GET THE WEAPONS COMING
THROUGH JORDAN.
>> Warner: YOU MENTIONED THE
PICTURES FROM KHALDIYEH AND,
TWO, THE ASSAD REGIME RELEASED
THIS VIDEO OF HIM VISITING
TROOPS.
IS THERE ALSO AN IMAGE WERE
GOING ON BETWEEN TWO SIDES?
>> OH, THERE'S NO DOUBT AND
THAT'S BEEN SINCE THE VERY
BEGINNING.
THE OTHER THING THAT WE SAW THIS
WEEK IS PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD OPENED AN INSTAGRAM
ACCOUNT AND THIS IS ANOTHER
OCCASION FOR VERY CALM
LEADER-LIKE PHOTOGRAPHS THAT
WERE PUT OUT ON THE WEB.
ON THE REBEL SIDE, THERE ARE
SEVEN YOUTUBE CNNELHAS THAT ARE
WITH THE F.S.A..
YOU CAN WATCH ALMOST EVERY
BATTLE THAT TAKES PLACE, PUTTING
OUT MORE CONTENT THAN AL JAZEERA
OR PBS.
IT'S A HUGE AMOUNT OF VIDEO.
BOTH SIDES ARE SPEAKING TO THEIR
BASE.
SOMHINGET THAT WE UNDERSTAND IN
AMERICA POLITICS AND IT IS TO
KEEP UP THE MORALE OF EACH SIDE
TO SAY WE ARE WINNING AND SO ALL
OF THAT IS DONE WITH THIS
IMAGERY.
THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER IS WE
ARE STILL A STALEMATE IN SYRIA.
NEITHER SIDE CAN DELIVER A
KNOCKOUT BLOW ALTHOUGH NEITHER
SIDE APPEARS TO BE WILLING TO
END THIS BRUTAL, BRUTAL
CONFLICT.
>> Warner: WE'VE HEARD THAT MORE
THAN A MILLION SYRIANS HAVE FLED
TO NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES BE FROM
YOUR TRIPS IN THERE AND THE
PEOPLE YOU'VE TALKED TO, HOW ARE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE STAYED--
MILLIONS OF THEM-- IN THESE
BATTLE TORN CITIES, HOW ARE THEY
GETTING BY?
>> THERE'S TWO KINDS OF PEOPLE
INSIDE.
THERE ARE MILLIONS OF SYRIANS
WHO ARE DISPLACED.
PEOPLE WHO LIVED IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF KHALDIYEH WHO
HAVE BEEN DRIVEN OUT AND FIND
THEMSELVES IN MAKESHIFT REFUGEE
-- THEY AREN'T REFUGEE, THEY ARE
INTERNALLY DISPLACED CAMPS
WITHIN SYRIA.
AND THOSE PEOPLE ARE NOT DOING
WELL INTERNATIONAL AID
ORGANIZATIONS DON'T GET TO THEM,
IT'S UP TO THE REBELS TO CARE
FOR THEM TO MAKE SURE THEY GET
ENOUGH TO EAT.
BUT THERE ARE MANY VILLAGES IN
THE NORTH AND IN PARTS OF ALEPPO
WHERE PEOPLE ARE GOING ABOUT
THEIR LIVES.
IT'S NOW TWO AND A HALF YEARS
INTO THIS CONFLICT AND BOTH IN
THE REBEL-HELD AREAS THEY KNOW
THAT EVERY COUPLE OF DAYS ONE OF
THOSE VILLAGES MAY HAVE A ROCKET
OR MORTAR ATTACK OR MISSILE.
IT'S PART OF LIFE.
PEOPLE HAVE GOTTEN ON WITH THEIR
LIVES.
THIS IS THE SAME IN THE CAPITAL.
PEOPLE GO OUT AT NIGHT.
THERE ARE RESTAURANTS NOPE THE
CAPITAL.
ALSO IN THE SOUTH IN DARA'A,
ANOTHER CONTESTED CITY WHERE YOU
HAVE A REGIME-CONTROLLED AREA IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE CITY AND THE
REBELS CONTROL LARGE SWATHS IN
THE COUNTRYSIDE.
PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, GET UP IN THE
MORNING, SOME OF THEM TEND THEIR
FARMS IN DAMASCUS PEOPLE GO TO
WORK.
IT'S REALLY QUITE AMAZING THE
RESILIENCE OF SYRIANS IN SO MUCH
VIOLENCE THAT AS TIME HAS GONE
ON PEOPLE HAVE LEARNED TO LIVE
WITH SOME OF THIS VIOLENCE.
I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT THE
SERIOUSLY CONTESTED AREAS.
THOSE ARE TERRIBLE FOR CIVILIANS
BUT THERE ARE PARTS OF SYRIA
WHERE PEOPLE HAVE A RELATIVELY
NORMAL LIFE.
>> Warner: DEB AMOS OF NPR,
THANK YOU AND TRAVEL SAFELY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: F.B.I. DIRECTOR
ROBERT MUELLER MADE HIS
FAREWELLS TO THE LAW ENFORCEMENT
COMMUNITY TODAY AT A CEREMONY AT
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT.
RAY SUAREZ LOOKS AT THE OUTGOING
DIRECTOR'S TENURE AND HOW THE
F.B.I. HAS EVOLVED.
>> Suarez: MUELLER LED THE
AGENCY FOR 12 YEARS, STARTING
JUST ONE WEEK BEFORE THE 9/11
ATTACKS.
TODAY, ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER SAID MUELLER HAS
TRANSFORMED THE BUREAU SINCE
THEN, AND PREVENTED A NUMBER OF
SERIOUS TERROR PLOTS.
THE OUTGOING DIRECTOR, IN TURN,
GAVE MUCH OF THE CREDIT TO THOSE
HE'S WORKED WITH.
>> IT HAS BEEN MY PRIVILEGE TO
WORK WITH SO MANY TALENTED AND
DEDICATED PUBLIC SERNTS.VA
MEN AND WOMEN WHO GIVE
EVERYTHING IN THEIR POWER TO
KEEP THE AMERICAN PEOPLE SAFE
MEN AND WOMEN FOR WHOM THE RULE
OF LAW IS THE GUIDING PRINCIPLE.
FOR AN EXAMINATION OF THE
MUELLER ERA AT THE BUREAU WE
TURN TO FORMER HOMELAND SECURITY
SECRETARY MICHAEL CHERTOFF, WHO
WORKED CLOSELY WITH MUELLER
DURING GEORGE W. BUSH'S
ADMINISTRATION.
AND JULIAN ZELIZER.
HE'S A PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
PROFESSOR OF HISTORY AND PUBLIC
AFFAIRS, AND IS THE AUTHOR OF A
BOOK ON THE POLITICS OF NATIONAL
SECURITY.
SECRETARY CHERTOFF, IT'S BEEN
SAID THAT DIRECTOR MUELLER HAD
TO OVERSEE THE TRANSFORMATION OF
THE F.B.I. FROM A CRIME-FIGHTING
AGENT CITY TO A NATIONAL
SECURITY ONE.
IN PRACTICAL TERM WHAT IS DID
THAT MEAN?
WHAT HAD TO CHANGE AT THE
F.B.I.?
>> WELL, OF COURSE, THE F.B.I.
CONTINUES TO BE A CRIME FIGHTING
MISSION BUT INTELLIGENCE AND
PREVENTION HAVE TO BE EQUAL
PRIORITIES WITH PROSECUTING AND
PUNISHING CRIMES AFTER THAT THEY
OCCUR AND THAT MEANT CREATING A
CAREER PATH THAT WILL FOSTER THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AN INTELLIGENCE
CAPABILITY.
IT MEANT TO SOME DEGREE
CENTRALIZING THE ACTIVITIES OF
WHAT USED TO BE A WIDELY
DECENTRALIZED AGENCY SO YOU
COULD HAVE A COORDINATED
APPROACH TO DEALING WITH
COUNTERTERRORISM AND PERHAPS
MOST IMPORTANT IT
THE F.B.I. OVERSEAS, PUTTING
THEM INTO THE FIELD, GETTING
THEM INVOLVED, WORKING SIDE BY
SIDE WITH OUR MEN IN UNIFORM AND
WOMEN IN UNIFORM TO COLLECT
FORENSIC INFORMATION THAT HAS
INTELLIGENCE VALUE.
>> Suarez: THE DIRECTOR SAID "I
LOVE DOING BANK ROBBERIES, DRUG
CASES, HOMICIDES.
AS A PROSECUTOR THAT'S WHAT I
THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO BE
OVERSEEING WHEN I GOT TO THE
BUREAU.
BUT NOW AMERICANS EXPECT US TO
PREVENT THE NEXT TERRORIST
ATTACK."
WHAT DIH
F.B.I. THAT HE HAD TO CHANGE.
>> WELL, 9/11 FUNDAMENTALLY
CHANGE THE ROLE OF THAT AGENCY
FROM SOMETHING THAT WAS REALLY
FOCUSED ON DOMESTIC CRIME
FIGHTING TO SOMETHING THAT WAS
FOCUSED ON TERRORISM PARTIALLY
AND THAT INCLUDED THE EXPANSION
OF ANALYSIS, EXPANSION OF
INTELLIGENCE GATHERING, GOING
ACROSS BORDERS AND A
REDEFINITION OF THE MISSION OF
WHAT THE F.B.I. WAS ABOUT AND I
THINK IT WILL ULTIMATEBLY A VERY
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE THAT WE SAW
UNDER PRESIDENT BUSH THAT HAS
CONTINUED AND WILL REMAIN A
PERMANENT PART OF OUR POLICY
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> Suarez: PROFESSOR, THAT
WASN'T JUST HAPPENING AT THE
F.B.I. BUT MANY AGENCIES
INVOLVED IN CRIMINAL AND THE
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
AS PART OF A HUGE RUNUP IN
SPENDING, IN CAPABILITY, IN THE
CASE OF THE F.B.I., HAS IT PAID
OFF?
DID IT WORK?
>> WELL, THAT'S THE QUESTION
PEOPLE WILL ASK.
OBVIOUSLY MANY SPORTERS OF THE
CHANGES WILL ARGUE THAT MANY
IMPORTANT CASES HAVE BEEN
PREVENTED.
THE SUBWAY BOMBING IN NEW YORK
CITY WAS ONE OF THE BIG LANDMARK
EFFORTS WHERE REALLY BIG
TERRORIST THREAT WAS AVERTED.
THERE ARE MANY THE PUBLIC KNOWS
ABOUT, MANY WHICH WE DON'T KNOW
ABOUT, BUT OVERALL THAT WILL
WILL GO ON THE PLUS OF WHAT WE
HAVE DONE SINCE 9/11 TO
REESTABLISH A SENSE OF NORMALCY
IN THIS COUNTRY TO PREVENT MANY
ATTACKS.
ON THE NEGATIVE SIDES THERE WILL
BE CRITICS WHO SAY THERE'S BEEN
AN EROSION OF CIVIL LIBERTIES
AND THERE WILL ALSO BE QUESTIONS
ABOUT EVENTS SUCH AS THE BOSTON
BOMBING WHERE SOME OF THE HOLD
IN INTELLIGENCE GATHERING HAVE
BEEN EXPOSED.
>>uare Sz: IS THE TRADEOFFS BEEN
LARGER THAN THE BENEFITS YOU
DERIVE IN AN AGENCY OF THE
F.B.I.?
>> FROM FROM THE STANDPOINT OF
THE F.B.I. THERE HAVE BEEN, AS
THE PROFESSOR SAID, A NUMBER OF
PLOTS THAT WERE DISPTERUD, SOME
ARE WELL KNOWN, SOME ARE NOT
WELL KNOWN, I CAN TELL YOU
DURING MY TIME PERIOD WE MET
WITH THE PRESIDENT ONCE A WEEK
WITH THE F.B.I. DIRECTOR TO TALK
ABOUT ONGOING PLOTS AND THE
BUREAU WAS INVOLVED IN
DISRUPTING OR IN SOME WAY
PREVENTING THOSE PLOTS FROM
COMING TO TWU WIGS.
THEY'RE NOT PERFECT.
THE BOSTON MARION BOMBING IS
SOMETHING THAT DIDN'T SUCCEED
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE TOTAL
SCORE CARD, IT'S QUITE
REMARKABLE WHAT THE
TRANSFORMATION HAS DONE.
AND, FRANKLY, WITHOUT A
SIGNIFICANT SACRIFICE OF CIVIL
LIBERTIES.
THE BUREAU STILL OPERATES WITHIN
THE TRADITIONAL FRAMEWORK OF THE
LAW.
IN THIS M CASES SUPERVISED BY
THE COURTS.
>> Suarez: SECRETARY, YOU
MENTIONED THE BOSTON BOMBING AND
I GUESS THE MUELLER ERA IS
BRACKETED BY 9/11 ON ONE SIDE
AND THE BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING
ON THE OTHER.
THIS WAS A CASE WHERE THE F.B.I.
ALREADY HAD TSARNAEV IN THE
SYSTEM BUT DIDN'T MAKE THE
CONNECTIONS BETWEEN WHAT IT HAD.
IS THAT AN ILLUSTRATION OF A
PROBLEM WHERE NOW AGENCIES ARE
ABLE TO COLLECT THESE HUGE
DATABASES BUT CAN'T NECESSARILY
CONNECT ALL THE CROSS HATCHINGS
THAT WOULD GUESS US TO A
SUSPECT?
>> WELL, IT DOES ILLUSTRATE THE
FACT THAT ALTHOUGH WE'VE GOTTEN
BETTER ABOUT CONNECTING THE DOTS
IT STILL REQUIRES YOU TO
UNDERSTAND THE SIGNIFICANCE OF
THE INDIVIDUAL DOTS.
AND THERE ARE GOING TO BE TIMES
WHEN EITHER BECAUSE OF HUMAN
ROHR OR SOME MISALIGNMENT OF
PRIORITIES SOMETHING IS GOING TO
GET MISSED.
SO I WOULDN'T THIS -- CONSIDER
THIS TO BE UNDERCUTTING THE
OVERALL SEX OF THE SYSTEM BUT
IT'S A USEFUL OPPORTUNITY TO
TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT DIDN'T WORK
RIGHT.
DID WE NOT PAY ENOUGH ATTENTION
TO THE SOURCE OF THE INFORMATION
BECAUSE IT CAME FROM THE
RUSSIANS?
WAS THERE SOME FAILURE TO FOLLOW
UP ON SOMETHING BECAUSE AN
INDIVIDUAL DIDN'T DIDN'T
APPRECIATE THE URGENCY.
IN THE HAND, NOMATTER HOW MUCH
ANALYSIS IS ENHANCED BY
TECHNOLOGY DEPENDS ON HUMAN
BEINGS.
>> Suarez: WHEN WE LOOK BACK AT
ROBERT MUELLER'S 12 YEARS AT THE
F.B.I., THE QUESTION COMES UP
WHETHER THE EMERGENCY EVER
PASSES, WHETHER THERE'S EVER A
TIME WHEN THE THREAT IS SEEN OFF
WHEN YOU CAN STAND DOWN, OR DO
PLACES LIKE THE F.B.I. ONLY GROW
IN THE ONE DIRECTION-- EVER
LARGER?
>> I MEAN, THE HISTORY OF
NATIONAL SECURITY INSTITUTIONS
IS THAT THEY REMAIN IN PLACE,
THEY CONTINUE EVEN AFTER THE
CRISES IS OVER.
THAT'S CERTAINLY CASE WITH A LOT
OF THE COLD WAR INSTITUTIONS
THAT WE DEVELOPED ALTHOUGH THEY
WERE REFORMED AND REORGANIZED
AFTER 9/11.
WITH THIS PARTICULAR THREAT WITH
TERRORISM IT'S UNLIKELY THREAT
WILL GO AWAY ANY TIME SOON.
IT WILL CHANGE IN NATURE, IT
MIGHT DIMINISH IN SOME PLACES,
EXPAND IN OTHERS BUT THE F.B.I.
IS NOT GOING TO LOSE THE NEW
CHARACTERISTICS THAT IT'S GAINED
SINCE 9/11.
I THINK THIS IS A LITTLE BIT
LIKE THE COLD FOR WHAT THAT
RESPECT AND THIS INSTITUTION AND
THE CHANGES THAT MUELLER PUT
INTO PLACE WILL REMAIN
PERMANENT.
THEY WILL BE REFORMEDED, SOME
MIGHT BE SCALED DOWN BUT THE
BASIC CHARACTER OF THE F.B.I. IS
WHAT IT IS TODAY AND IT'S NOT
GOING TO GO BACK TO THE J. EDGAR
HOOVER DAYS.
>> Suarez: SECRETARY, AR WEE
EVER GOING TO HAVE ANYBODY-- NOW
THAT THE JOB IS SO EXPANDED--
WHO'S A DIRECTOR FOR 12 YEARS
AGAIN?
>> WELL, OF COURSE, YOU KNOW
CONGRESS CREATED A TEN-YEAR TERM
AND I THINK THAT WILL BE THE
NORM.
IT WAS A LITTLE BIT
EXTRAORDINARY TO HAVE BOB
MUELLER TO HOLD OVER FOR ANOTHER
COUPLE YEARS BUT THE THEORY IS
YOU WANT TO HAVE CONTINUITY AND
YOU WANT TO ESTABLISH THAT THE
DIRECTOR IS OPERATING WITHOUT
THE TIMELINE THAT A PARTICULAR
ADMINISTRATION HAS BUT REALLY
STANDS THROUGH FOUR
ADMINISTRATIONS.
THERE'S GOT TO BE CONTINUITY,
NON-PARTISANSHIP.
BOB MUELLER BROUGHT AN
INCREDIBLE SENSE OF
PROFESSIONALISM AND EXPERIENCE
TO THE JOB AND IN MANY WAYS HE
IS THE MOLD, I THINK, OF
DIRECTORS TO COME, INCLUDING JIM
COMFY, WHO JUST GOT CONFIRMED.
>> Suarez: GENTLEMEN, THANKS
VERY MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, IT'S
BEEN CALLED AN EPIDEMIC: THE
ONGOING PROBLEM OF SEXUAL CRIMES
WITHIN THE U.S. MILITARY.
AN ESTIMATED 26,000 TROOPS WERE
SEXUALLY ASSAULTED LAST YEAR.
JUST 3,400 OF THOSE ATTACKS WERE
REPORTED.
AND STATISTICALLY, A FEMALE
SOLDIER IS MORE LIKELY TO BE
RAPED BY A FELLOW OFFICER THAN
SHE IS TO DIE IN COMBAT.
GWEN IFILL PICKS UP OUR LOOK AT
THE ISSUE.
>> Ifill: THE DEBATE CONTINUES
ON CAPITOL HILL OVER HOW TO END
RACE AND SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE
MILITARY.
WE SPOKE RECENTLY WITH
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR KIRSTEN
GILLIBRAND OF NEW YORK WHO WANTS
TO TAKE THE POWER TO LAUNCH
PROSECUTIONS AWAY FROM MILITARY
COMMANDERS.
BUT THE SENATE ARMS SERVICES
COMMITTEE VOTED TO KEEP THE
PROCESS IN THE CHAIN OF COMMAND
WHILE STRIPPING COMMANDERS OF
THE AUTHORITY TO OVERTURN
VERDICTS.
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR CLAIRE
McCASKELL OF MISSOURI AND
REPUBLICAN KELLY AYOTTE OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE SUPPORT THAT APPROACH.
THEY JOIN US FROM CAPITOL HILL.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
YOU ARE BOTH FORMER PROSECUTORS,
YOU BOTH AGREE THIS IS A MAJOR
PROBLEM THAT HAS TO BE SOLVED.
HOW DOES YOUR PROPOSAL, SENATOR
McCASKELL, DIFFER FROM WHAT
SENATOR GILLIBRAND IS PROPOSING?
>> WELL, I THINK PROPOSAL THAT
WE ARE SUPPORTING DOES A BETTER
JOB OF PROTECTING THE VICTIMS
AND A BETTER JOB OF HOLDING
COMMANDERS ACCOUNTABLE AND
ULTIMATELY IT WILL RESULT IN
MORE PROSECUTIONS AND PUTTING
MORE PERPETRATORS BEHIND BARS.
I THINK AS FORMER PROSECUTORS
THAT'S WHAT MOTIVATED BOTH -- I
THINK I CAN SPEAK FOR KELLY THAT
THIS IS ABOUT -- I MEAN, FRANKLY
WE DON'T CARE WHETHER THE
COMMANDERS ARE IN IT OR NOT.
THE IMPORTANT ISSUE IS HOW CAN
WE PROTECT VICTIMS AND GET MORE
SUCCESSFUL PROSECUTIONS.
>> Ifill: SENATOR AYOTTE,
SENATOR GILLIBRAND SAID WHEN SHE
TALKED TO THE NEWSHOUR THAT THIS
IS WHAT VICTIMS HAVE ASKED FOR,
HER APPROAC, WHHICH IS TO TAKE
IT OUT OF THE CHAIN OF COMMAND.
HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THAT?
WHAT HAVE VICTIMS TOLD YOU?
>> WELL, CERTAINLY VICTIMS HAVE
VARYING VIEWS ON THIS ISSUE AND
WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS MAKE SURE
THAT WE -- MAKE SURE VICTIMS ARE
PROTECTED.
THAT'S WHY WE MADE RETALIATION
UNDER A CRIME UNDER THE U.C.M.J.
BUT ALSO TO MAKE SURE THE CHAIN
OF COMMAND AND COMMANDERS TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY AND AREN'T LET
OFF THE HOOK FOR CREATING THE
BEST SUPPORTIVE ENVIRONMENT FOR
VICTIMS.
AND THAT'S WHY I SUPPORT THIS
APPROACH.
AND, IN FACT, WHAT WE FOUND IS
THAT IF YOU COMPARED THE AMOUNT
OF PROSECUTIONS BROUGHT BY
COMMANDERS, THEY'VE ACTUALLY
BROUGHT MORE PROSECUTIONS THAN
IF YOU JUST LEFT IT WITH THE JAG
LAWYERS.
SO I'M WORRIED FOR VICTIMS THAT
LESS CASES WILL BE PROSECUTED IF
WE TAKE IT OUT OF THE CHAIN OF
COMMAND.
SO TO ME AS A FORMER PROSECUTOR,
IF WE PROSECUTE LESS CASES THEN
IT'S GOING TO PUT VICTIMS IN A
VERY DIFFICULT POSITION.
>> Ifill: U.C.M.J. BEING THE
UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY
JUSTICE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Ifill: I'M COME BACK TO YOU
BUT I WANT TO FOLLOW UP WITH
SENATOR McCASKELL.
WHAT IS IT ABOUT ACCOUNTABILITY
THAT MAKES YOUR APPROACH BETTER?
IF ALL THESE YEARS THESE
PROBLEMS HAVE PERSISTED, WHAT
ABOUT YOUR APPROACH WOULD CHANGE
THE ACCOUNTABILITY?
>> WELL, HERE'S THE PROBLEM.
IMAGINE YOU'RE A VICTIM AND
YOU'RE GOING BACK INTO YOUR UNIT
AND THERE ARE LAWYERS 200 MILES
AWAY WHO HAVE DECIDEED THIS CASE
GOES FORWARD VERSUS THE
COMMANDER DECIDING WHETHER THE
CASE GOES FORWARD.
IN WHICH ENVIRONMENT DO YOU
THINK THE VICTIM HAS MORE
PROTECTION FROM RETALIATION?
I THINK IT'S FAIRLY OBVIOUS: SHE
GETS MORE PROTECTION FROM
RETALIATION IF THE COMMANDER IS
SIGNED OFF.
AND THAT HAS NOT BEEN THE
PROBLEM.
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO BRING
US ANY CASES WHERE THE
COMMANDERS HAVE REFUSED TO BRING
PROSECUTIONS WHEN THE
PROSECUTORS HAVE RECOMMENDED IT.
JUST THE OPPOSITE IS, IN FACT,
TRUE, AS KELLY SAID, MANY TIMES
PROSECUTORS, MAYBE BECAUSE IT'S
A HARD CASE, MAYBE BECAUSE
THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT THEIR
ONE-LOSS RECORD SAY THIS CASE IS
NOT A WINNER.
AND THE COMMANDERS HAVE
INSISTED, NO, LET'S GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF IT.
SO YES THE COMMANDERS NEED TO
KEEP OUT OF THE BUSINESS OF
OVERTURNING JURIES.
YES WE NEED TO CHANGE THE RULES
SO VICTIETORS, LEGAL HELP,
THEY'RE IN CONTROL OF WHERE THEY
GO, WHETHER THEY COME BACK TO
THEIR UNIT OR GET SHIPPED OUT OR
WHETHER THE PERPETRATOR GETS
SHIPPED OUT AND ANOTHER
IMPORTANT REFORM, GWEN, IS THAT
WE'RE GOING TYKE-TO-TAKE OUT OF
THE EQUATION HOW GOOD A SOLDIER
SOMEONE HAS BEEN.
THAT MIGHT BE RELEVANT TO
SOMETHING, IT'S NOT RELEVANT TO
WHETHER OR NOT THEY'RE GUILTY OF
A CRIME.
SO WE HAVE REALLY DONE HISTORIC
REFORMS HERE AND THE COUNTRIES
THAT HAVE CHANGED THEIR SYSTEMS,
THERE HAS NOT BEEN AN INCREASE
IN REPORTING.
SO EVEN THAT PREMISE THAT
THEY'RE BASING THIS ON THAT
REPORT WILLING INCREASE, THE
OTHER COUNTRIES THAT HAVE
CHANGED THIS, THEY HAVE NOT SEEN
AN INCREASE IN REPORTING.
>> AND BY THE WAY, GWEN, THE
OTHER COUNT THESE HAVE CHANGED
THIS, THE CHANGES WERE ACTUALLY
MADE AS A RESULT OF -- TO
PROTECT DEFENDANTS NOT TO
SUPPORT VICTIMS.
SO IT'S IMPORTANT FOR PEOPLE TO
UNDERSTAND THAT WHEN WE HAVE A
DIFFERENCE WITH OUR ALLIES, THAT
WAS ACTUALLY DONE BECAUSE
DEFENDANTS WERE DRIVING THAT,
NOT FURTHER PROTECTION FOR
VICTIMS AND WHAT WE'RE ABOUT IS
MAKING SURE THAT WE HAVE FURTHER
PROTECTIONS FOR VICTIMS.
>> Ifill: SENATOR AYOTTE, I WANT
TO START WITH YOU AND GO BACK TO
SENATOR McCASKELL.
WHY WILL THIS BE DIFFERENT?
WHY WILL COMMANDERS HAVE MORE
INCENTIVE TO ACT TO PROTECT
PEOPLE IF, INDEED, IN THAT CHAIN
OF COMMAND SOMEONE IN THE CHAIN
OF COMMAND MAY HAVE BEEN THE ONE
WHO RAPED OR ASSAULTED YOU?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, GWEN, YOU
DO NOT HAVE TO REPORT AT ALL
WITHIN THE CHAIN OF COMMAND.
THERE ARE MULTIPLE AVENUES YOU
CAN REPORT TO.
NOW WE'RE ALSO GOING TO HAVE
SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL SO
VICTIMS HAVE THEIR OWN LAWYER TO
REPRESENT THEM.
BUT IN ADDITION TO THAT, OUR
PROPOSAL DOES HAVE INCREDIBLE
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR THE
COMMANDERS BECAUSE IF THERE'S A
DISAGREEMENT BETWEEN JAG
ATTORNEY AND THE COMMANDER IN
TERMS OF BRINGING A CHARGE,
THAT'S GOING TO GO ALL THE WAY
UP TO THE CIVILIAN SECRETARY OF
THE FORCE.
WHETHER IT'S THE SECRETARY OF
THE AIR FORCE, THE ARMY TO MAKE
THE CALL AND EVEN IF BOTH SAY
THAT WE'RE NOT GOING TO BRING A
CASE IT STILL GOES UP FOR
ANOTHER LEVEL OF REVIEW TO MAKE
SURE THAT VICTIMS KNOW THAT
THERE IS ACCOUNTABILITY WITHIN
THE CHAIN OF COMMAND.
>> Ifill: SENATOR McCASKELL, AT
YOUR PRESS CONFERENCE ON THIS
MATTER YOU HAD A NAVY RETIREE
WHO SAID PART OF THE PROBLEM
HERE IS THAT THE INVESTIGATIONS
JUST TAKE TOO LONG.
THAT THEIR HANDS ARE TIED,
THERE'S NOTHING THEY CAN DO.
WHAT ABOUT YOUR APPROACH TO THIS
WOULD RESOLVE THAT PROBLEM?
>> WELL, THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT
IN OUR APPROACH THESE VICTIMS --
WHEN THEY REPORT OUTSIDE THE
CHAIN OF COMMAND THEY'RE GOING
TO GET THEIR OWN LEGAL ADVICE
AND THAT IS GOING TO BE A
PRESSURE POINT IN THE SYSTEM.
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOW GOING TO
HAVE SOMEBODY ADVOCATING THAT
THIS CASE BE HANDLED QUICKLY AND
IF YOU TAKE THE COMMANDERS OUT
THAT REMOVES EVEN MORE PRESSURE
FROM THESE CASES GOING AS
QUICKLY AS THEY SHOULD BECAUSE
NOW THE COMMANDERS WILL BE
ACCOUNTABLE UNDER OURS.
IF THEY'RE NOT ACCOUNTABLE
ANYMORE, THAT'S A PROBLEM FOR
THE JAGS.
THAT'S A PROBLEM FOR THE JAGS,
THAT'S A PROBLEM FOR THE
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATORS, THAT'S
NOT OUR PROBLEM.
THAT'S AN UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE
THAT IN THE LONG RUN WOULD HURT
VICTIMS NOT HELP THEM.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO KNOW, GWEN,
THAT AS KELLY SAID THE VICTIM
COMMUNITY IS NOT MONOLITHIC ON
THIS.
WE'VE HAD VICTIMS CALL OUR
OFFICE, VICTIMS THAT HAVE BEEN
FEATURED IN SOME OF THE
DOCUMENTARIES ABOUT THIS SUBJECT
THAT HAVE SAID "WE THINK YOUR
APPROACH IS BETTER.
THEY'RE FEELING, I THINK,
MARGINALIZED BECAUSE -- AS
SOMETIMES WE'VE FELT
MARGINALIZED BECAUSE THE OTHER
SIDE WANTED TO MAKE THIS
ARGUMENT ABOUT VICTIMS VERSUS
UNIFORMS.
THAT'S A FALSE PREMISE.
THIS ARGUMENT IS ABOUT HOW WE
CAN PROTECT THE VICTIMS THE
BEST.
>> Ifill: SENATOR AYOTTE, HOW DO
YOU GET TO ZERO TOLERANCE ON
SOMETHING LIKE THIS, NO MATTER
WHAT YOUR APPROACH IS.
IT'S ONE THING FOR COMMANDERS
AND PRESIDENTS TO SAY WE WON'T
TOLERATE THIS OR FOR MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE BUT HOW DO YOU MAKE
THAT HAPPEN?
>> I THINK WE MAKE THAT HAPPEN
FIRST OF ALL WITHIN THE CHAIN OF
COMMAND IF YOU CONDONE THIS
WITHIN YOUR UNIT OR DON'T
SUPPORT VICTIMS YOU SHOULD BE
FIRED AND THAT PIECE OF
ACCOUNTABILITY COMING FROM THE
TOP FLOWING THROUGH EVERY LEVEL
OF THE CHAIN OF COMMAND AND I
CAN TELL YOU, GWEN, THE REASON
WE'RE GOING TO PUSH TOWARDS ZERO
TOLERANCE IN ADDITION TO
TRAINING AND THE LAWYERS, THE
COUNSEL VICTIMS WILL GET IN OUR
BILL IS THAT CLAIRE AND I ARE
NOT GOING TO LET THIS GO.
WE SERVE ON THE ARMS SERVICES
COMMITTEE AND WE WILL BE ASKING
PEOPLE NOT EVERY YEAR BUT EVERY
FEW MONTH WHAT IS IS HAPPENING
AND PLEASE REPORT BACK TO THE
COMMITTEE TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
HOLD PEOPLE'S FEET TOE THE FIRE
ON THESE IMPORTANT PROVISIONS
AND YOU SHOULD KNOW THERE IS A
LOT OF AGREEMENTS BETWEEN US AND
SENATOR GILLIBRAND ON SO MANY OF
THESE PROVISIONS AND I KNOW
WHATEVER WE REPORT OUT IT WILL
BE STRONG AND IT'S NOT THE
STATUS QUO.
>> Ifill: SENATOR KELLY AYOTTE
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE AND SENATOR
CLAIRE OF MISSOURI,
REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATS GOOD TO
SEE YOU WORKING TOGETHER.
THANKS A LOT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANKS, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
EDWARD SNOWDEN, THE LEAKER OF
U.S. SURVEILLANCE SECRETS, WAS
GRANTED ASYLUM IN RUSSIA.
THE U.S. CRITICIZED THE MOVE,
AND SAID HE SHOULD HAVE BEEN
RETURNED TO FACE ESPIONAGE
CHARGES.
ARIEL CASTRO WAS GIVEN LIFE
WITHOUT PAROLE, PLUS 1,000
YEARS, FOR HOLDING THREE WOMEN
CAPTIVE IN HIS CLEVELAND HOUSE,
AND RAPING THEM REPEATEDLY, OVER
A DECADE.
AND EGYPT'S INTERIOR MINISTRY
OFFERED SAFE PASSAGE TO
THOUSANDS OF SUPPORTERS OF
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI,
IF THEY END THEIR SIT-INS IN
CAIRO.
>> Brown: ONLINE, GETTING TO THE
TOP OF THE LAFFER CURVE.
KWAME HOLMAN EXPLAINS.
>> Holman: ARTHUR LAFFER IS THE
ECONOMIST BEHIND REAGANOMICS AND
THE FAMOUS ARCH.
THAT PREDICTS THE IDEAL TAX RATE
FOR GENERATING REVENUE.
HE SPOKE WITH OUR OWN PAUL
SOLMAN TO EXPLAIN HOW HIS THEORY
APPLIES TO STATES.
AND A NEW STUDY SHOWS AMERICANS'
FEELINGS ABOUT THEIR ECONOMIC
PROSPECTS DIVIDE SHARPLY BY
RACE.
THE ECONOMIC OPTIMISM OF
MINORITIES SURPASSES THAT OF
WHITES BY ONE OF THE LARGEST
MARGINS IN DECADES.
READ ABOUT THAT ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
LATEST ROUND OF JOBS NUMBERS AND
A NEW EFFORT TO BOOST THE
EMPLOYMENT OF THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH DAVID
BROOKS AND RUTH MARCUS, AMONG
OTHERS.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.